- Leaders are accountable
for making their software development teams successful
in delivering results for their business.
When the business brings a new idea or challenge
to your team,
there are several steps you can take as a leader
to set your team up for success.
If you haven't worked with a business partner before,
it's important to start out
with what I call onboarding the customer.
It's a set of activities
you'll complete with the business partner
to determine how you'll collaborate on the product
your team is developing.
To kick things off,
you'll want to educate them on key agile concepts
like iterative development, the backlog, sprints,
and a minimal viable product.
Then, explain their role in the agile ceremonies
where you'll need their participation.
During this time, you'll want to agree upon
how you'll work together and gain commitments
that key business partners will be available
for conversations regarding their product.
This helps ensure your team has access
to the right people who can provide feedback
that prevents your team from building the wrong product.
Once you've obtained these commitments,
you'll need to begin working closely
with your business partner,
to develop a firm understanding
of what they'd like to achieve
and the results they're looking to produce.
In these early stages,
it's important to include key members from your team,
so they can hear these conversations firsthand
and begin to build the business acumen necessary
to achieve the goal.
As you discuss the primary capabilities
required by the software,
take notes and pay attention
to other qualities of the system,
such as performance or availability requirements
that might influence the system's architecture.
Once you have a good understanding
of what an MVP looks like,
start to do some planning
about how you'll go about delivering it with the team.
Here, you'll want to create drafts of a rough schedule,
a product roadmap, an architecture document,
and a list of the potential technologies in the stack.
You'll want to work with the team
to evaluate and select the best technologies
for the solution.
Technology selection is very important.
So, you might want to invest a few cycles
in building small prototypes before you land on a stack.
Next, you'll want to evaluate
whether the team has the capability and capacity to deliver.
If you're missing a key skillset
or the team is swamped with other work,
you might need to appeal for more resources.
Nothing is more important
than selecting the right individual to join your team.
So, if you need to hire,
carefully evaluate candidates when making your selection.
Once you have a preliminary plan,
you'll want to share it with your business partners
to set their expectations and get their feedback.
Be careful not to over promise and to highlight risk
that could cause the plan to change.
When leading your first project,
you'll want to closely monitor the situation
as your team works to deliver the product,
but be careful not to micromanage.
Along the way,
there's bound to be a few setbacks.
And, with each sprint,
you'll receive feedback from your business partners,
which might change the products direction.
Evaluate these situations,
and if necessary, pivot, to adjust your approach.
Always keep your business partners in the loop
on these course corrections and the team's progress,
because once you earn their trust,
it's like having a superpower
that will benefit you for the lifetime of your relationship.
Getting your first win as a new leader
is always a challenging and, sometimes,
a nerve wracking experience,
but these tips should help get you there.
After you deliver that first product,
it gets easier,
because you'll have collected your own set of tips,
know the key areas to focus on,
and have the confidence from your past success.